sit down study, repeat multiple times but after few hours, it disappear.
because our brain designed to forget almost everything, at survival perspective, if it destroy focus, then it got deleted.
this is not about intelligent or how good is that brain.
rereading, watch multiple times, highlighting works because passive information do not convince the brain things matter.
the brain familiar with the brain on 2nd/3rd pass. the brain mistakes recognition for actual knowledge.
neuroscience study shows that the brain remember faster if we struggle correctly not harder.
below are the methods that we can use to remember faster, retain longer and recall under pressure.

1. do not trying to store the information.
memory builds through reconstruction, the information strengthen through the memory retrieval not receive. 
this is active recall.
top performer = read, close note, for the brain to retrieve the information without looking.
a tiny struggle during recall means the brain slowly adapting it.
every time want to start study or learning, ask this question "what i can recall without looking?".

2. the brain love incomplete patterns.
incomplete information will create a mental tension to the brain and the brain want to resolve it.
the brain remember faster if the information is connected/patterns/meanings.
meaning create memory hook, more memory hooks, remember faster.
create diagram, story, etc. during learning/study should work to make the brain remember faster.
remember to ask yourself "how do i connect?".

3. the 24 hours rule.
most of the memory will last 24 hours.
spaced = the memory strengthen over time. not force.
study 1 hour over 3 days is better than study 3 hours a day.
memory needs reinforcement (recall + repeat).
spaced repetition = review it not too early or not too late. and review it many times.
day-1 learn, day-2 review, day-4 review, day-7 review, day-14 review.

4. emotion is memory superpower.
yesterday memories already disappear but old memories still there.
because the brain prioritize emotional memories.
emotion = attention
attention = encoding
encoding = memory
during study/learning, create emotion such as music, mood, curiosity, etc.
"how do i make my brain care?".

5. the blurting method.
read, close notes, take paper and recall anything you can, compare with notes, repeat.
this combine active recall, retrieval practice, error correction, memory encoding.

6. environment secretly trains your brain.
if you study in distraction, then you will learn distraction. 
shallow attention, will create shallow memory.
so, secure your 30mins study session from any distraction for deep encoding.

7. sleeping is the brain best friend.
during sleeping the brain still working.
and the brain will transfer important memories to long term storage.

8. the interleaving.
study one topic for 4 hours, then another topic for 4 hours, then another topic for 4 hours. 
this works because the brain works harder when switching between topics.
as the brain adapts to this, then the future, it will able to remember faster.

conclusion, the brain is not bad at memorizing.
during study always remember about what i can recall, what i can explain and what i can remember after 3 days.